CrateDB supports full text
search over text data with
Lucene.
In this video I'll show you when
you should consider full text
search, how it works and how its
behaviour can be customized.
We will of course also examine
some full text search queries
using our Chicago neighbourhoods
data set.
When should you consider using
full text search?
When you have lots of semi or
unstructured data and you want
to query for terms and phrases
in that data.
When you need a search engine
that understands the language
that the text is written in.
When you want to consider search
results in order of relevance to
your query.
Querying text data for character
sequences using LIKE isn't going
to help with these requirements,
especially if you need fuzzy
searching or want to search for
phrases.
What can full text search be
applied to in CrateDB?
Any TEXT column in a table,
including those deeply nested in
objects.
And how does this work in Crate
DB?
Full text search is powered by
the indexing capabilities of
Apache Lucene and queries are
expressed in standard SQL.
Full text search queries can
also be combined with the
querying and filtering by other
data types.
For example, with our Chicago
data set, we might perform a
full text search over the
community areas data, find areas
that match the term historic or
railroad and which have a
population above a certain
threshold, where the population
data is stored in a regular
numerical column in the table.
Here's a SQL statement that
creates a table for our
community area data.
As part of the data set, we have
a textual description of each
area that we're storing as the
field description inside the
details object.
description is of type TEXT and
here we're telling CrateDB to
create a full text index for
this field and that we have
English language content.
When new rows are written to
this table, CrateDB will
analyse the content of the
description field and build and
maintain a search index for it.
This indexing process is
extremely fast, minimising the
time between new data being
received and the ability to
query it.
In this version of the CREATE
TABLE statement for our
community_areas table, we're
defining a separate composite
index that combines the contents
of the name and the description
fields.
Let's look at how the indexing
process works in more detail.
Imagine we have two text
documents that look like this,
and the content is a TEXT column
with full text search indexing
enabled.
As documents in this column are
added or updated, they are first
processed by an analyzer.
The analyzer takes the contents
of the field and splits it into
tokens which are used in the
search index.
The analyzer consists of a
tokenizer, zero or more token
filters, and zero or more char
filters.
When content is analysed to
become a stream of tokens, the
char filter is applied,
filtering out some special
characters, for example
apostrophes.
A tokeniser takes the filtered
character stream and splits it
into tokens, for example using
white space to distinguish
between tokens.
Using this process an inverted
search index is created.
This maps tokens or terms back
to the documents that contain
them and normalises them for
example to lowercase.
The analyser process is highly
configurable and can be adapted
to different languages and for
different content types.
CrateDB supports numerous
analysers out-of-the-box.
These are pre configured for
common scenarios.
For example, the standard
analyzer includes the lowercase
token filter to transform tokens
to lowercase and a stop words
token filter.
This removes commonly used words
that aren't needed for searches
because they contain very little
meaning.
Examples stop words in English
include a,
the, is, and are. When configuring
an analyzer
here are some of the tokenier
options supported.
When processing documents
containing e-mail addresses, the
URL e-mail tokeniser ensures
that these are recognised as
individual tokens.
Here are some of the supported
token filters.
For example, stemmer will have
the token plus words with the
same root form or stem.
This is language specific.
In English, runs, running and
ran might all stem to the word
run.
Phonetic converts tokens to
their phonetic representations.
Finally, it is a representative
selection of the character
filters.
The HTML strip filter removes
HTML elements from analyse text,
useful when the text contains
markup.
Remember that more than one
token and character filter can
be used when creating a custom
analyzer.
There are many more options
available to you.
Consult the full Text Analyzers
section of the CrateDB
documentation for a
comprehensive guide.
Custom analyzers can be created
using the CREATE ANALYZER SQL
statement.
Here I'm specifying an analyzer
called myanalyzer that uses the
white space tokenizer and the
lowercase filter.
It also contains a custom char
filter that maps certain
sequences of characters to
others, for example replacing ph
with f.
The custom analyzer can then be
referenced by name when defining
full text indexes against text
columns in a CrateDB table.
You can also create new
analyzers by extending the
behaviour of existing ones.
Here I'm extending the Snowball
analyzer to use the German
language when tokenizing.
CrateDB supports a wide range
of languages for building full
text search indexes
out-of-the-box.
Solve the documentation for more
details on what's supported with
each language.
Now we've indexed our data for
full text search, it's time to
try some queries against it.
The MATCH predicate is used to
perform these queries.
At it's simplest, MATCH takes
the field to query as a first
parameter and a search query
term as a second.
This query searches for
community areas whose
description matches the term
railway.
When using MATCH, we can also
return a score that indicates
the relative quality of the
match.
Select _score to retrieve.
This is the result of running
this query.
This is the result with the
highest relevant score and we
can see where our search term
matched in the description.
This query uses 2 terms,
railroad and tracks.
MATCH treats this as a query for
railroad or tracks.
When we run this query, we see
that the highest scoring result
contains 2 occurrences of tracks
and one of railroad.
Here I'm specifying I want to
search for the phrase railroad
yard.
This means that I want to find
the results containing those
terms together in that order.
Here we see we have a match for
railroad yards.
Other community areas that
contain mentions of railroads
and stock yards don't match and
aren't returned here.
MATCH also supports the option
to specify a slop or proximity
for words in a phrase.
For example, setting a slop of
one would match railroad goods
yards.
It's important to remember that
with CrateDB, other data types
can be used in SELECT queries
that also leverage full text
search.
Here I'm looking for community
areas whose descriptions contain
both the terms railroad and
historic or words that stem from
these words and I've specified
the AND operator instead of the
default OR as an option to the
MATCH predicate.
I've also added a regular SQL
AND clause to check the value of
the population field inside the
details object.
These multi model queries can be
very powerful.
For example, we might combine
geospatial data with review
ratings and text descriptions to
find a restaurant that's got a
high star rating, allows dogs to
visit, and is within 5
kilometres of our hotel.
This video provided a high level
introduction to full text search
in CrateDB.
To learn more about how to
create and configure full text
search indexes and perform rich
queries with the match
predicate, please refer to the
CrateDB documentation where
you'll find reference materials
and tutorials.